Cloud Computing:

Q1. What is cloud computing?
Cloud computing refers to the delivery of computing services, including storage, processing power, networking, databases, analytics, and more, over the internet. Users can access these resources on-demand without the need for extensive on-site infrastructure. Cloud Computing is a service which offers us storing and accessing data and programs over the cloud/internet instead of using our own infrastructure.

Q2. Deployment Model in Cloud:
Public Cloud: Services are provided over the internet, and resources are shared among multiple organizations.
Private Cloud: Cloud infrastructure is solely dedicated to a single organization.
Hybrid Cloud: Combination of public and private clouds, allowing data and applications to be shared between them.

Q3. Service Model in Cloud:
There are three primary service models in cloud computing:
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): Provides virtualized computing resources over the internet.
Platform as a Service (PaaS): Offers a platform allowing customers to develop, run, and manage applications without dealing with the complexities of infrastructure.
Software as a Service (SaaS): Delivers software applications over the internet, eliminating the need for users to install, maintain, and run the applications on their devices.

Q4. Architecture of Cloud Computing:
Cloud computing architecture is divided into two parts front-end and back-end. The front-end includes the user/client interface and client devices and the back-end includes application/servers, storage, databases, and a network. Middleware i.e. internet, connects the front-end and back-end, enabling communication and data processing.

Q5. AWS Global Infrastructure Count:
AWS has multiple Availability Zones in 32 geographic regions around the world and 102 availability zones.(This can Change)

Q6. Why do we use a region?
Regions allow users to select a specific geographical location for hosting their resources. This enables better performance, low latency and more scalability and reliability. Each region has multiple AZ’s.

Q7. What is a service? & What are resources?
Service: Service refers to a specific offering, such as computing power(EC2), storage(S3), provided by a cloud provider.
Resource: Resources are the individual components in a service, such as virtual machines, databases, instances, storage buckets, etc., that users can use within a cloud service.
